[Music]
hey how's it going Dave 2d here so this
is a review on the mid 2017 HP omen so
this thing has been redesigned for this
year the old model the 2016 model that
kind of carried over to early 2017 that
was a very generic looking laptop this
one it looks less generic but I feel
like a lot of the design language has
been inspired from companies like Acer
or Lenovo this doesn't look super HP to
me but it's a well-built laptop the
paneling is solid most of it is plastic
the hinge also seems really good despite
the location I mean I don't only don't
like seeing hinges close together like
this they tend to wear out a little bit
faster but this one feels good and you
can open it with one hand there's a lot
of read on this laptop it's your classic
black and red gaming laptop the color
schemes not my jam but for some people
that do like this color scheme I think
it looks alright the port selection is
pretty solid here there's an SD card
slot used to be 3s and you also have to
display outputs Ethernet and a u s-- PC
but despite this Thunderbolt 3 looking
symbol
there's no Thunderbolt 3 action to be
had unless you pay for that $20.00
upgrade the keyboard is pretty good the
keys are a little softer than I'd like
but layout is good backlighting is red
for most of the keyboard but just a
handful of white LEDs under the WASD
Keys the trackpad uses synaptic drivers
I really wish they'd gone with Windows
precision drivers here the tracking is
OK like there's the occasional hiccup
but I didn't have issues with gestures
or tapping it also has dedicated buttons
for clicking so you might or might not
like that ok let's talk about the
display if you're actually interested in
purchasing this thing you should
probably pay attention here so the base
model is dim it has poor color accuracy
and quite frankly it sucks it's one of
the worst screens I've seen on a 15-inch
gaming laptop the 4k panel is good but
unless you're using this laptop
exclusively for content creation I'd
skip the screen it's also not cheap
the only display that I really like is
120 Hertz 1080p panel it's a $60 upgrade
but it's just so much better than the
base panel and games look a lot better
when they're being played in 120 Hertz
the default webcam looks ok you can
upgrade it for 20 bucks but even the
base model supports Windows hello for
speedy logins
the internals of the laptop are pretty
easy to access there's a handful of
screws this configuration has a two and
a half inch SATA Drive and an m2 SSD the
SSD is a PM nine six one so it'll have
pretty quick speeds and this
configuration has eight gigs of RAM you
can install up to 32 gigs the battery
down here is 70 watt hours which is a
relatively large battery for a gaming
laptop but battery life isn't great I'm
getting around five hours of use with my
regular test which is kind of weird
because this is a bigger battery than
the previous generation but I'm getting
very similar numbers in terms of
performance this thing's running a gtx
1050 TI and it's getting great
performance as expected the 1050 Ti is
basically the sweet spot for price to
performance on gaming laptops you can
play most triple-a titles at 60 frames
per second with great image quality it's
only the heavier titles that struggle a
little bit now if you want to see more
benchmarks for this GPU there's a link
in the video description there's another
configuration of the omen with the GTX
1060 max Q and I guess it would be their
top of the line model I've mentioned
this in previous videos but if you're
gonna do max Q you got to do it right
you got to build the entire laptop from
the ground up with max Q design in mind
if you take a pre-existing chassis and
you just stick a max cube chip in there
you're not getting the benefits of what
max Q can do you're still getting a
thick laptop you're still getting a
pretty loud laptop there's no point now
in terms of fan noise on the TI version
it's actually pretty good
on load it doesn't get too loud but for
whatever reason when it's idling the
fans kick and more often than I'd expect
even with cool sense off there's also no
fan control in their software but
thermal performances otherwise really
good it handles stress tests well and
overall the thermal design on the new
omen is quite a bit better than the
previous generation the speakers fire
from underneath the laptop and they
actually sound pretty good they also get
really loud obviously sound quality goes
to hell when you crank it but if you
need that volume this thing can do it so
with the new mid 2017 HP omen we're
looking at a laptop with a metal
keyboard deck but plastic everywhere
else it has good detailing and build
quality
it has several screen options but I
highly recommend getting 120 Hertz panel
the backlit keyboard is also well laid
out and it's comfortable to type on the
trackpad has dedicated buttons and
synaptic drivers which are just ok
there's occasional tracking lag inside
the i7 and the GTX 1050 Ti have strong
gaming performance temperatures are good
but the fan control is a little
aggressive and comes on more than I'd
like
the 2 Ram slots and the two drive bays
are easy to access for upgrades and the
70 watt hour battery although big
doesn't give the best battery life now
if I only focus on the merits of the HP
omen I would say that this is a good
laptop right it's got good performance
really good build quality and if you
choose the right screen games look good
on it the thing is the pricing is not
very good the base model with the gtx
1050 I mean that's to me the minimum
card that you should get on this it's
$1,100 with a pretty poor screen the
model with a 1050 Ti and the 120 Hertz
panel you're going to break $1200 so in
general this is not a good value for a
laptop I would consider this kind of in
the middle of a bunch the thing is HP
laptops have usually been really well
priced but not right now if competition
is too fierce if you're looking to get
this definitely get the 120 Hertz panel
I think you're still getting okay value
at that point but any of the other
options I wouldn't do it okay thumbs if
you liked this video subs if you loved
it see you guys next time
[Music]